There has been a significant increase in the availability
of 3D players and displays in the last years. Nonetheless,
the amount of 3D content has not experimented an increment of
such magnitude. To alleviate this problem, many algorithms for
converting images and videos from 2D to 3D have been proposed.
Here, we present an automatic learning-based 2D-3D image conversion
approach, based on the key hypothesis that color images
with similar structure likely present a similar depth structure.
The presented algorithm estimates the depth of a color query
image using the prior knowledge provided by a repository of
color + depth images. The algorithm clusters this database
attending to their structural similarity, and then creates a
representative of each color-depth image cluster that will be
used as prior depth map. The selection of the appropriate
prior depth map corresponding to one given color query image
is accomplished by comparing the structural similarity in the
color domain between the query image and the database. The
comparison is based on a K-Nearest Neighbor framework that
uses a learning procedure to build an adaptive combination of
image feature descriptors. The best correspondences determine
the cluster, and in turn the associated prior depth map. Finally,
this prior estimation is enhanced through a segmentation-guided
filtering that obtains the final depth map estimation. This
approach has been tested using two publicly available databases,
and compared with several state-of-the-art algorithms in order
to prove its efficiency.
There are two main approaches to 2D-to-3D image and
video conversion depending on whether a human operator is
needed or not. In the denominated semi-automatic methods,
the intervention of a human operator in the process is needed
to assign depth to different parts of the scene, creating a sparse
depth map. Then, the sparse map is processed to create a
dense depth map over the whole image or video. Alternatively,
the human operator can assign a global variation to the whole
scene to define a depth prior, which is then refined to make the
different objects of the scene appear in the final depth map.
The importance of the human actuation may vary from a small
sketch that assigns depths to different regions of the scene up
to an accurate delimitation of the objects in the scene in order
to assign depth values to them.